# **Prediction of EUR/USD exchange rate**

This repository includes analyses about my data science capstone project. The goal of this project is to improve the predictions of EUR/USD exchange rate using Twitter sentiment.

## Introduction

The prediction of currencies is relevant for minimizing losses due to currency fluctuations. In this regard, the Euro is the ([second most important currency worldwide](https://www.statista.com/statistics/247362/global-foreign-exchange-market-turnover-by-currency/)), thus being its prediction relevant for many economic agents. 

The Euro is [fiat money](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money), being a financial asset instead of a real asset. Therefore, it is the financial liability or debt that the European Central Bank (BCE) acquires with the holder of the Euro currency. The value of this financial asset depends on the expected services that this asset can give in the future. What can expect a Euro holder from the Euro?

A clear service is the liquidity, this fiat currency has a stable value, thus economic agent value this because it can use it in the future with a similar value, so the agent holds this currency. But there is more that gives value to the fiat currency. The state (central bank) has assets to defend the value of the currency. If there is an excess of the currency in relation with the demand, the state can sell assets and take bak its currency from the market, decreasing its offer and hence stabilizing its value. The central bank usually acumulate assets that buy by selling its own currency, but there other assets probably more important, tax assets. When the state gets taxes, its reabsorbing its currency. If the goverment is in superavit, it is gaining more of its own currency that selling, thus an economic agent can expect that the value of that currency is going to be stable, becuase the state is not in need to increase a lot the offer of its currency in order to support its activities. If the demand of the currency decreases, the state has margin to reabsorv its currency. If the state has a big deficit, then the only way to get financial support is to print more moneay, decreasing a lot the value of the curreny. An economic agent does not want to buy this currency. If a state is in default, its currency will lose a lot of value. Similarly, if the central bank is buying low-quality assets like bonds of countries with high debts, then the potential ability of the central bank to control the value of the currency in the future will be disminished, because its portfolio is not strong enough to reabsorv its currency when its demand decreases. Therefore, it is useful to consider both the situation (balance) of the BCE and the situation of the countries with Euro.

It is known that the expectation around a currency can influence its value. 